---
title: Whisk API Reference

language_tabs:
  - shell

toc_footers:
  - <a href='#'>Sign Up for a Developer Key</a>
  - <a href='https://github.com/tripit/slate'>Documentation Powered by Slate</a>

search: true
---

# OAuth

The Whisk API is secured using a standard pattern for API authentication and authorisation.
This mechanism follows closely the method used by Twitter for securing its API.

Each client has a unique `consumerKey` and `consumerSecret` pair. 
The key is submitted along with requests to the API; the secret must never be submitted to the API, or disclosed to anyone else. 
The secret is used to “sign” the request, but the secret must not be sent in requests.

## Authorizing a request

Whisk’s implementation requires that requests needing authorization contain an additional HTTP __Authorization__ header with all necessary information to corretly identify and authorize client app.

> Example request with Authorization header

```shell
curl -v -X GET -H "Authorization: OAuth oauth_consumer_key=\"80995584\",oauth_signature_method=\"HMAC-SHA1\",oauth_timestamp=\"1318622958\",oauth_nonce=\"T1kbXU\",oauth_version=\"1.0\",oauth_signature=\"ZzVq1pzrooLm%2BgpjNzF0Yuj6P2I%3D\"" "https://api.whisk.com/inventory/v1/basket?recipeUrl=https://www.asdagoodliving.co.uk/food/recipes/banana-fritters&inventory=Asda&region=GB"
``` 


### Collecting parameters
You should be able to see that the header contains 6 key/value pairs, where the keys all begin with the string “oauth_”. For any given Whisk API request, collecting these 6 values and creating a similar header will allow you to specify authorization for the request. How each value was generated is described below:

__Consumer key__

The `oauth_consumer_key` identifies which application is making the request. You should receive this value when sign up for Whisk API.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_consumer_key</td>
    <td>80995584</td>
</tr>
</table>

__Nonce__

The `oauth_nonce` parameter is a unique token your application should generate for each unique request.
Whisk will use this value to determine whether a request has been submitted multiple times.
Any approach which produces a relatively random alphanumeric string should be OK here.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_nonce</td>
    <td>T1kbXU</td>
</tr>
</table>

__Signature__

The `oauth_signature` parameter contains a value which is generated by running all of the other request parameters and secret value through a signing algorithm.
The purpose of the signature is so that Whisk can verify that the request has not been modified in transit, and verify the application sending the request.

The process for calculating the oauth_signature for this request is described in [Creating a signature](#creating-signature).

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_signature</td>
    <td>ZzVq1pzrooLm+gpjNzF0Yuj6P2I=</td>
</tr>
</table>

__Signature method__

The `oauth_signature_method` used by Whisk is HMAC-SHA1. This value should be used for any authorized request sent to Whisk's API.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_signature_method</td>
    <td>HMAC-SHA1</td>
</tr>
</table>

__Timestamp__

The `oauth_timestamp` parameter indicates when the request was created.
This value should be the number of seconds since the Unix epoch at the point the request is generated, and should be easily generated in most programming languages.
Whisk could reject requests which were created too far in the past, so it is important to keep the clock of the computer generating requests in sync with NTP.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_timestamp</td>
    <td>1318622958</td>
</tr>
</table>

__Version__
The `oauth_version` parameter should always be 1.0 for any request sent to the Whisk API.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>oauth_version</td>
    <td>1.0</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Building the header string

To build the header string, imagine writing to a string named DST.

0. Append the string “OAuth ” (including the space at the end) to DST.
0. For each key/value pair of the 7 parameters listed above:
  0. Percent encode the key and append it to DST.
  0. Append the equals character ‘=’ to DST.
  0. Append a double quote ‘”’ to DST.
  0. Percent encode the value and append it to DST.
  0. Append a double quote ‘”’ to DST.
  0. If there are key/value pairs remaining, append a comma ‘,’ and a space ’ ’ to DST.

Pay particular attention to the percent encoding of the values when building this string.
For example, the oauth_signature value of `ZzVq1pzrooLm+gpjNzF0Yuj6P2I=` must be encoded as `ZzVq1pzrooLm%2BgpjNzF0Yuj6P2I%3D`.

Performing these steps on the parameters collected above results in the following string:

`OAuth oauth_consumer_key="80995584",oauth_signature_method="HMAC-SHA1",oauth_timestamp="1318622958",oauth_nonce="T1kbXU",oauth_version="1.0",oauth_signature="ZzVq1pzrooLm%2BgpjNzF0Yuj6P2I%3D"`

This value should be set as the Authorization header for the request.



## Creating Signature

This section explains how to generate an OAuth 1.0a HMAC-SHA1 signature for a HTTP request.
This signature will be suitable for passing to the Whisk API as part of an authorized request, as described in [Authorizing a request](#authorizing-a-request).

For the purposes of explanation, we will be using the following client key and secret pair:

* `consumerKey: 80995584`
* `consumerSecret: b871779c2830e43db0cd8a7c725f514d`

The request used to demonstrate signing is a `GET` request to the <br/> `https://api.whisk.com/inventory/api/basket` endpoint.
The raw request could be seen on the right

> Raw request data

```shell
> GET /inventory/v1/basket?recipeUrl=https://www.asdagoodliving.co.uk/food/recipes/banana-fritters&inventory=Asda&region=GB HTTP/1.1
> Host: api.whisk.com
> User-Agent: curl/7.43.0
> Accept: */*
```

### Collecting the request method and URL

To produce a signature, start by determining the HTTP method and URL of the request.
These two are known when creating the request, so they are easy to obtain.

The request method will almost always be `GET` or `POST` for Whisk API requests.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>HTTP Method</td>
    <td>POST</td>
</tr>
</table>

The base URL is the URL to which the request is directed, minus any query string or hash parameters.
It is important to use the correct protocol here, so make sure that the “https://” or “http://” portion of the URL matches the actual request sent to the API.
As a best practice, you should always be using “https://” with the Whisk API.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>Base URL</td>
    <td>https://api.whisk.com/inventory/api/basket</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Collecting parameters

Next, gather all of the parameters included in the request.
There are two such locations for these additional parameters - the URL (as part of the querystring) and the request body.

The sample request includes 3 parameters:

Parameter | Value
--------- | -------
recipeUrl | https://www.asdagoodliving.co.uk/food/recipes/banana-fritters
region    | GB
inventory | Asda

In the HTTP request the parameters are URL encoded, but you should collect the raw values.
In addition to the request parameters, every oauth_* parameter needs to be included in the signature, so collect those too.
Here are the parameters from [Authorizing a request](#authorizing-a-request):

Parameter | Value
--------- | -------
recipeUrl | https://www.asdagoodliving.co.uk/food/recipes/banana-fritters
region    | GB
inventory | Asda
oauth_consumer_key | 80995584
oauth_nonce | T1kbXU
oauth_signature_method | HMAC-SHA1
oauth_timestamp	| 1318622958
oauth_version	| 1.0

These values need to be encoded into a single string which will be used later on. The process to build the string is very specific:

0. [Percent encode](https://dev.twitter.com/oauth/overview/percent-encoding-parameters) every key and value that will be signed.
0. Sort the list of parameters alphabetically[1] by encoded key[2].
0. For each key/value pair:
0. Append the encoded key to the output string.
0. Append the ‘=’ character to the output string.
0. Append the encoded value to the output string.
0. If there are more key/value pairs remaining, append a ‘&’ character to the output string.

The following string will be produced by repeating these steps with the parameters collected above:

`inventory=Asda&oauth_consumer_key=80995584&oauth_nonce=T1kbXU&oauth_signature_method=HMAC-SHA1&oauth_timestamp=1318622958&oauth_version=1.0&recipeUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.asdagoodliving.co.uk%2Ffood%2Frecipes%2Fbanana-fritters&region=GB`


### Creating the signature base string

The three values collected so far must be joined to make a single string, from which the signature will be generated.
This is called the __signature base string__ by the OAuth specification.

To encode the HTTP method, base URL, and parameter string into a single string:

0. Convert the HTTP Method to uppercase and set the output string equal to this value.
0. Append the ‘&’ character to the output string.
0. Percent encode the URL and append it to the output string.
0. Append the ‘&’ character to the output string.
0. Percent encode the parameter string and append it to the output string.

This will produce the following __signature base string__:

`GET&https%3A%2F%2Fapi.whisk.com%2Finventory%2Fapi%2Fbasket&inventory%3DAsda%26oauth_consumer_key%3D80995584%26oauth_nonce%3DT1kbXU%26oauth_signature_method%3DHMAC-SHA1%26oauth_timestamp%3D1318622958%26oauth_version%3D1.0%26recipeUrl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.asdagoodliving.co.uk%252Ffood%252Frecipes%252Fbanana-fritters%26region%3DGB`

Make sure to percent encode the parameter string!
The signature base string should contain exactly 2 ampersand ‘&’ characters.
The percent ‘%’ characters in the parameter string should be encoded as %25 in the signature base string.


### Getting a signing key
The last pieces of data to collect are secrets which identify the application making the request, and the user the request is on behalf of.
It is very important to note that these values are incredibly sensitive and should never be shared with anyone.

The value which identifies your application to Whisk is called the __consumer secret__.
This will be the same for every request your application sends.

<table>
<tr>
    <td>Consumer secret</td>
    <td>b871779c2830e43db0cd8a7c725f514d</td>
</tr>
</table>

Whisk is not using OAuth token secret, so it is only `consumerSecret` which need to be used to form __signing key__

The __signing key__ is simply the percent encoded consumer secret, followed by an ampersand character ‘&’:

<table>
<tr>
    <td>Signing key</td>
    <td>b871779c2830e43db0cd8a7c725f514d&</td>
</tr>
</table>


### Calculating the signature
Finally, the signature is calculated by passing the signature base string and signing key to the HMAC-SHA1 hashing algorithm.
The details of the algorithm are explained [in depth here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash-based_message_authentication_code), but thankfully there are implementations of HMAC-SHA1 available for every popular language.
For example, PHP has the [hash_hmac](http://php.net/manual/en/function.hash-hmac.php) function.

The output of the HMAC signing function is a binary string.
This needs to be base64 encoded to produce the signature string.
That value, when converted to base64, is the OAuth signature for this request:

<table>
<tr>
    <td>OAuth signature</td>
    <td>ZzVq1pzrooLm+gpjNzF0Yuj6P2I=</td>
</tr>
</table>

This signature should be submitted as a HTTP header along with the request.

<aside class="notice">
the key/secret pair in this document are not authorised to access the recipes endpoint.
You must use your own key/secret pair with the above process to get a valid response.
</aside>





# Inventory

## Basket options

### HTTP Request

`GET https://api.whisk.com/inventory/v1/basket`

### Query Parameters

Parameter | Optional | Description
--------- | ------- | -----------
recipeUrl | false | Recipe url to get supermarket options for
region    | false | Geographical region of a store (e.g. GB)
inventory | false | Inventory name (e.g. Asda)


> The endpoint should JSON structured like this:

```json
{
  "ingredients" : [ {
    "text" : "125g flour",
    "items" : [ {
      "canonicalProduct" : "FLOUR",
      "rawAmount" : "125G",
      "matchedItems" : [ {
        "item" : {
          "whiskItemId" : "asda|19230",
          "sku" : "19230",
          "name" : "ASDA Plain Flour",
          "price" : 40,
          "currency" : "GBX",
          "url" : "http://groceries.asda.com/asda-webstore/landing/home.shtml#/product/19230",
          "imageUrl" : "https://whisk-res.cloudinary.com/image/upload/v1457833859/storeitems/asda/8b6abc81ce1d236f6d4bd44bdded7713.jpg",
          "amount" : "500G",
          "unitPrice" : 80,
          "unitSize" : "kg",
          "brand" : "ASDA",
          "storeDepartment" : "Home Baking, Sugar & Desserts"
        },
        "qty" : 0.25
      }, {
        "item" : {
          "whiskItemId" : "asda|25473",
          "sku" : "25473",
          "name" : "ASDA Smartprice White Plain Flour",
          "price" : 45,
          "currency" : "GBX",
          "url" : "http://groceries.asda.com/asda-webstore/landing/home.shtml#/product/25473",
          "imageUrl" : "https://whisk-res.cloudinary.com/image/upload/v1457834088/storeitems/asda/7174c4d887e46a4ab44c9cb416e3551f.jpg",
          "amount" : "1.5KG",
          "unitPrice" : 30,
          "unitSize" : "kg",
          "brand" : "ASDA SMART PRICE",
          "storeDepartment" : "Home Baking, Sugar & Desserts"
        },
        "qty" : 0.08333333333333333
      }, ... ]
    } ]
  }, ...]
}
```